---
layout: post
cover: false
title: The Brooks Brothers No. 1 Stripe
date:   2015-12-02 17:34:00
tags: style
subclass: 'post tag-style'
categories: 'zian'
navigation: True
---

<blockquote class="instagram-media" data-instgrm-version="7" style=" background:#FFF; border:0; border-radius:3px; box-shadow:0 0 1px 0 rgba(0,0,0,0.5),0 1px 10px 0 rgba(0,0,0,0.15); margin: 1px; max-width:658px; padding:0; width:99.375%; width:-webkit-calc(100% - 2px); width:calc(100% - 2px);"><div style="padding:8px;"> <div style=" background:#F8F8F8; line-height:0; margin-top:40px; padding:50.0% 0; text-align:center; width:100%;"> <div style=" background:url(data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAACwAAAAsCAMAAAApWqozAAAABGdBTUEAALGPC/xhBQAAAAFzUkdCAK7OHOkAAAAMUExURczMzPf399fX1+bm5mzY9AMAAADiSURBVDjLvZXbEsMgCES5/P8/t9FuRVCRmU73JWlzosgSIIZURCjo/ad+EQJJB4Hv8BFt+IDpQoCx1wjOSBFhh2XssxEIYn3ulI/6MNReE07UIWJEv8UEOWDS88LY97kqyTliJKKtuYBbruAyVh5wOHiXmpi5we58Ek028czwyuQdLKPG1Bkb4NnM+VeAnfHqn1k4+GPT6uGQcvu2h2OVuIf/gWUFyy8OWEpdyZSa3aVCqpVoVvzZZ2VTnn2wU8qzVjDDetO90GSy9mVLqtgYSy231MxrY6I2gGqjrTY0L8fxCxfCBbhWrsYYAAAAAElFTkSuQmCC); display:block; height:44px; margin:0 auto -44px; position:relative; top:-22px; width:44px;"></div></div><p style=" color:#c9c8cd; font-family:Arial,sans-serif; font-size:14px; line-height:17px; margin-bottom:0; margin-top:8px; overflow:hidden; padding:8px 0 7px; text-align:center; text-overflow:ellipsis; white-space:nowrap;"><a href="https://www.instagram.com/p/-zEkcqQig3/" style=" color:#c9c8cd; font-family:Arial,sans-serif; font-size:14px; font-style:normal; font-weight:normal; line-height:17px; text-decoration:none;" target="_blank">A photo posted by Zian Liu (@chairmanzian)</a> on <time style=" font-family:Arial,sans-serif; font-size:14px; line-height:17px;" datetime="2015-12-02T17:34:39+00:00">Dec 2, 2015 at 9:34am PST</time></p></div></blockquote>
<script async defer src="//platform.instagram.com/en_US/embeds.js"></script>

There are few ties that scream "America" as much as the Brooks Brothers #1 Repp - the first in a series of striped ties that define the essence of Brooks Brothers (and Ivy League) style. The #1 Repp has a series of 5 stripes, alternating in two colors, that run from the top right to the bottom left (the "American way"), widely spaced on a solid background. The ["original" version](http://www.brooksbrothers.com/BB%231-Repp-Tie/0210,MA02076,default,cp.html?dwvar_A230_Color=BURG&contentpos=39) is suitable for wear with solid or striped shirts, and the ["mini" version](http://www.brooksbrothers.com/Mini-BB%231-Repp-Tie/0210,MA02077,default,cp.html?dwvar_193A_Color=BLCK&contentpos=27) may pair better with solids and medium-sized plaids and checks.

Despite it perhaps being best-known as BB #1, the bar stripe tie is by no means exclusive to Brooks Brothers. I've seen many clothing companies make their own versions of the BB #1. J Press sells a design very similar to the Mini BB #1 at a similar price range and quality. In fact, President [George H.W. Bush](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/c/cd/43_George_H.W._Bush_3x4.jpg) wore it for his official portrait. Jos. A. Banks calls its version as "Trapped Bar Ties." Though they retail at a price range similar to that of Brooks, Jos A Banks' frequent sales makes the tie a suitable lower-quality replacement.

For more fashion-forward individuals, J Crew will occasionally offer similar-looking ties such as this "Triple Stripe" in cotton. For those who spend by the penny, The Tie Bar's $15 "Bar Stripe" and even some ties offered by Target's Merona could disguise themselves as the famed BB #1 Repp. I snatched both of mine from the local Goodwill store for $5 each. Since the design of the BB #1 hasn't changed for years, the ties are indistinguishable from newly-bought ones other than their being a quarter-inch wider at the base.
